Welcome my friend to today's
lecture on keyboard shortcuts.
Think of this as a cheat
code for understanding this
concept, concept explanation.
So what are these keyboard shortcuts you
ask are a simple, they are combinations
of keys on your computer keyboard.
When you press them together, they
perform specific actions much faster
than using that lazy mouse of yours.
Think of them as secret codes that
tell your computer to do something
instantly, like saving a document,
copying text, or opening a new window.
They are designed to boost your efficiency
and make you look like a computer wizard.
Real world relevance.
Now, why should you care?
Because keyboard shortcuts are
absolutely crucial for enhancing
productivity in daily operations.
Imagine faster data entry.
You can quickly navigate and
input data in various banking
software without endless clicking.
Or think about efficient
document management.
You can rapidly save print and
open documents, which is so
important for things like loan
applications or customer records.
Even for seamless communication, you can
swiftly compose emails or switch between
applications during customer interactions.
And here's a big one, improved accuracy.
Relying less on the mouse
minimizes potential errors
in critical financial tasks.
It's all about time management, my friend.
Saving precious seconds on
repetitive tasks allows more
focus on complex problem solving.
Plus, it shows a command over
your tools, reflecting true
professionalism and tech savviness.
Breakdown of question types
based on past exam patterns for
computer aptitude in your exam.
Questions on keyboard shortcuts
usually come in a few flavors.
About 40% of the time you'll
get a direct recall question.
This is a straightforward memory test,
like what is the shortcut to copy text?
Then for about 30% of
questions, they flip it.
This is action identification where
they give you a shortcut, like
control S and ask what it does.
Around 20% are application specific
related to programs like MS.
Word, Excel, or the Windows os.
For example, in MSXL, which
shortcut inserts a new row.
And finally, a small 10% might be fill
in the blanks or matching questions,
though these are less common.
Formulas and tricks.
While there are no magical formulas,
there are some key shortcuts and
tricks to make them stick in your head.
Let's go through the general purpose ones.
Control C is for copy,
control X is to cut.
Control V is for paste.
Control Z will undo your mistake and
control Y will redo it for files.
Control S is for save control.
P is for print control.
A is to select all control.
F is to find something, control
n create something new, and
control O will open a filer.
W closes a window or tab.
The window key opens the start menu.
Windows Key E opens File
Explorer, and Windows.
Key D shows the desktop.
A very useful one is Windows
Key L to lock your pc.
To switch between open apps,
use ALT tab for renaming a file.
Just press F two.
To refresh a page hit F five and the
classic ALT F four closes the app.
F1 is for help and F 11
gives you full screen.
For memorization, think like this.
C, X and V are all
neighbors on the keyboard.
Making them a little family
for copy cut and paste.
Z is like going back in the alphabet,
so it's for undo Y is right after, so
it's for redo or moving forward again.
S is for save, P for print, A
for all, F for find and for new.
O for open.
Easy peasy.
Think of alt tab as alternating between
your tabs and F two for renaming.
Just think file two needs a new name.
Methods of Solving.
So how do you master these first
use categorization group shortcuts
by their function like editing,
navigation, or file management.
Next try application specific learning.
Focus on the shortcuts for one
program at a time like Excel.
Don't mix everything up.
Use logical association.
Connect the key to the action
like we just did with S for save.
The most important method
is muscle memory practice.
Use them daily.
The more you use them, the
more they become automatic.
And finally, use contextual learning.
Learn them as you perform tasks, not
just by memorizing a boring list.
Shortcuts and smart techniques.
Here are some smart techniques.
Prioritize the high frequency shortcuts.
First, copy, paste, save,
undo, select all these.
Give you the biggest time savings.
Practice daily.
Make it a habit.
For learning, you can use cheat sheets.
Keep a small list handy, but over
time you'll find you don't need it.
Also, explore the menus.
In new applications, they often show
the shortcut right next to the command.
A great way to learn and you don't
have to abandon your mouse completely.
Use shortcuts for frequent actions and the
mouse for things that need more precision.
Common mistakes and misconceptions.
Now, let's talk about the common traps.
Many beginners, confuse, control and alt.
Just remember, control is usually for
direct commands, while alt is often
for menu access or special functions.
Don't forget the shift key.
It often modifies other shortcuts like
shift delete for a permanent delete.
A big misconception is assuming
a shortcut works everywhere.
While many are universal like Ctrl C,
some are unique to specific software.
The biggest mistake is over
reliance on the mouse and not
even trying to use shortcuts.
And please don't try to
memorize a huge list at once.
That's a recipe for disaster.
Focus on a few at a time.
WH framework summary.
So to quickly summarize, using our
framework, what are keyboard shortcuts?
They are combinations of
keys for specific commands.
Why do we use them to increase
efficiency, speed, and productivity?
When should you use them?
Whenever you need to do a common
action quickly without the mouse.
Where are they used across
operating systems like Windows in
software, like MS. Office, and in
many other programs Who uses them?
Anyone on a computer, especially
professionals who want a faster workflow,
and how do they work by pressing two or
more keys together to trigger a command?
Simple, fully worked out examples.
All right, let's tackle some examples.
Example, one question.
Which of the following keyboard
shortcuts is used to copy,
selected text, or an object?
A, control x, B, control V. C, control
C. D control, Z. Understand the
question before moving to explanation.
Step one is to understand the goal.
The question wants, the shortcut
for copy copying makes a duplicate.
It doesn't remove the original.
Step two is to recall
the common shortcuts.
We know control X is cut.
CTRL V is paced and control Z is undo.
Step three is to identify the correct one.
The shortcut for copy starts
with A C, so it is control C.
Step four, we verify the option.
Option C matches our logic.
Perfectly correct.
Answer C control C. Example two question.
In most applications, what action
is performed when you press
control SA, open a new document.
B, save the current document.
C, print the document D,
close the application.
Understand the question
before moving to explanation.
First, let's analyze the shortcut.
Control S. The letter
S is a big hint here.
What action starts with S Save of course.
Let's evaluate the other
options just to be sure.
Opening a new document is usually
Control N printing is control P
closing an application is ALT F four.
So we can confidently conclude
that Control S is used to
perform the save action, correct.
Answer B, save the current document.
Example three question.
If you want to quickly switch
between different open programs
or windows on your computer, which
keyboard shortcut would you use?
A Alt F four B, control SC, alt tab D.
Windows Key L. Understand the
question before moving to explanation.
The goal here is to switch
between different open programs.
This means cycling through
what you have open.
Let's look at the options.
Alt F four closes the
program, not what we want.
CTRL esque usually just
opens the start menu windows.
Key L is for locking your pc.
That leaves us with alt tab.
This is the one designed for alternating
tabs or cycling through open applications.
It directly addresses the need.
Correct answer.
See ALT tab.
Thank you.
See you in the next lecture.